# Lecture 2

## Why are we making IoT?

### Benefits to consumers: Convenience

- Smart speakers: easy to play music, set times, or get information
- Smart homes: conserve energy or monitor environment
- Sensors: help understand how noisey or polluted the environment might be
- Smart cities/cars: drive efficiency and energy conservation

### Benefits to "industrial IoT": efficiency

- More data about product performance: sensors on components can transmit back data about their performance
- More data about internal systems: Data generated by sensors can make them more efficient
- Increased agility: complrehensive, real-time data collection and analysis and make business more responsive
- Reduced liability: real-time data can help spot failing components and swap it out before failure

## What are the environmental impacts of IoT?

### The good

- Smart objects / services
- Big data -> uend user driven innovation

### The bad & the ugly

- Adding semiconductors to most devices
- Shortened lifespan due to computing capabilities
- Almost 60 million metric tons of e-waste in 2022

## Are there social impacts of IoT?

### Connected aging

- Intelligent montoring and daily patterns
- Remote access control
- Interior geofencing and location
- Remote control of interior environments

### Privacy: big data and IoT

- Multiple connected sensors and acuators: environment constantly collects data about us adn distributes it
- An single object can reveal lots of information about the specific individual: personal, sensitive info exposed to leaks and hacks
- New ways of collecting and processing: IoT creates enxtensive information porfolios on the people living in that home
- Decisions about personal info: most decisions about personal information take place without user's awareness or control

### Privacy: ethical considerations

1) How does a user obtain informed consent?
2) How can individuals have overall control over their data?
3) Who is responsible? How can rights be exercised?
4) How can data be safeguarded?
